Add cached tables documentation (#7880)
pingcap/docs: cached-tables.md

---
title: Cached Tables
summary: Learn the cached table feature in TiDB, which is used for rarely-updated small hotspot tables to improve read performance.
---

# Cached Tables

In v6.0.0, TiDB introduces the cached table feature for frequently accessed but rarely updated small hotspot tables. When this feature is used, the data of an entire table is loaded into the memory of the TiDB server, and TiDB directly gets the table data from the memory without accessing TiKV, which improves the read performance.

> This document describes the usage scenarios of cached tables, the examples, and the compatibility restrictions with other TiDB features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes the usage scenarios, the examples, and the compatibility restrictions with other TiDB features of cached tables.
```

Author: Can't agree with the edit.

## Usage scenarios

The cached table feature is suitable for tables with the following characteristics:

- The data volume of the table is small.
- The table is read-only or rarely updated.
- The table is frequently accessed, and you expect a better read performance.

> When the data volume of the table is small but the data is frequently accessed, the data is concentrated on a Region in TiKV and makes it a hotspot Region, which affects the performance. Therefore, the typical usage scenarios of cached tables are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the data volume of the table is small but the data is frequently accessed, the data is concentrated on a Region in TiKV and makes it a hotspot Region, which affects the performance of TiKV. Therefore, the typical usage scenarios of cached tables are as follows:
```

Author: Not sure the performance of TiKV or of multiple components as a whole.

- Configuration tables, from which applications read the configuration information.
- The tables of exchange rates in the financial sector. These tables are updated only once a day but not in real-time.
- Bank branch or network information tables, which are rarely updated.

> Taking configuration tables as an example, when the application restarts, the configuration information is loaded in all connections, which causes a high read latency. You can solve this problem by using the cached tables feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Taking configuration tables as an example, when the application restarts, the configuration information is loaded in all connections, which causes a high read latency. In this case, you can solve this problem by using the cached tables feature.
```

1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

> **Note:**
>
> When you insert data to a cached table, second-level write latency might occur. The latency is controlled by the global environment variable [`tidb_table_cache_lease`](/system-variables.md#tidb_table_cache_lease-new-in-v600). You can decide whether to use the cached table feature by checking whether the latency is acceptable based on your application. For example, in a read-only scenario, you can increase the value of `tidb_table_cache_lease`:
>
> {{< copyable "sql" >}}
>
> ```sql
> set @@global.tidb_table_cache_lease = 10;
> ```
>
> The write latency of cached tables is high, because the cached table feature is implemented with a complex mechanism that requires a lease to be set for each cache. When there are multiple TiDB instances, one instance does not know whether the other instances have cached data. If an instance modifies the table data directly, the other instances read the old cache data. To ensure correctness, the cached table implementation uses a lease mechanism to ensure that the data is not modified before the lease expires. That is why the write latency is high.

### Revert a cached table to a normal table

> **Note:**
>

> > Executing DDL statements on a cached table will fail. Before executing DDL statements on a cached table, you need to remove the cache attribute first and set the cached table back to a normal table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> You cannot execute DDL statements on a cached table. Before executing DDL statements on a cached table, you need to remove the cache attribute first and set the cached table back to a normal table.
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
TRUNCATE TABLE users;
```

```sql
ERROR 8242 (HY000): 'Truncate Table' is unsupported on cache tables.
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
mysql> ALTER TABLE users ADD INDEX k_id(id);
```

```sql
ERROR 8242 (HY000): 'Alter Table' is unsupported on cache tables.
```

> To recover a cached table to a normal table, use `ALTER TABLE t NOCACHE`:

Author: ```suggestion
To revert a cached table to a normal table, use `ALTER TABLE t NOCACHE`:
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
ALTER TABLE users NOCACHE
```

```sql
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)
```

## Size limit of cached tables

Cached tables are only suitable to scenarios with small tables, because TiDB loads the data of an entire table into memory, and the cached data becomes invalid after modification and needs to be reloaded.

> Currently, the size limit of a cached table is 64 MB in TiDB. If the table data exceeds 64 MB, executing `ALTER TABLE t CACHE` will fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the size limit of a cached table is 64 MB in TiDB. If the table data is large than 64 MB, `ALTER TABLE t CACHE` cannot be executed.
```

## Compatibility restrictions with other TiDB features

Cached tables **DO NOT** support the following features:

- Performing the `ALTER TABLE t ADD PARTITION` operation on partitioned tables is not supported.
- Performing the `ALTER TABLE t CACHE` operation on temporary tables is not supported.
- Performing the `ALTER TABLE t CACHE` operation on views is not supported.
- Stale Read is not supported.
- Direct DDL operations on a cached table are not supported. You need to set the cached table back to a normal table first by using `ALTER TABLE t NOCACHE` before performing DDL operations.

Cached tables **CANNOT** be used in the following scenarios:

- Setting the system variable `tidb_snapshot` to read historical data.
- During modification, the cached data becomes invalid until the data is reloaded.

## Compatibility with TiDB ecosystem tools

The cached table is not a standard MySQL feature but a TiDB extension. Only TiDB can recognize the `ALTER TABLE CACHE` statement. TiDB ecosystem tools **DOES NOT** support cached tables, including Backup & Restore (BR), TiCDC, and Dumpling. They treat cached tables as a normal table.

> That is to say, when a cached table is backed up and restored, it becomes a normal table. If the downstream cluster is a different TiDB cluster and you want to continue using the cached table feature, you can manually enable cached tables on the downstream cluster by executing `ALTER TABLE CACHE` on the downstream table.

Author: ```suggestion
That is to say, when a cached table is backed up and restored, it becomes a normal table. If the downstream cluster is a different TiDB cluster and you want to continue using the cached table feature, you can manually enable cached tables on the downstream cluster by executing `ALTER TABLE ... CACHE` on the downstream table.
```
